Here’s a quick hit-list of “light” AI tasks you can punt to Hugging Face’s free Inference API, so you only run the heavy-duty core stuff yourself:

In short: offload all the classical NLP pipelines (summarization, translation, classification, NER, QA, embeddings) plus OCR, ASR and image-to-text to HF’s free tier. Use their hosted models via the Inference API; pick the smallest high-quality models (e.g. t5-small vs. t5-large, distil- vs. full-bert) to stretch your free credits. Below is a breakdown by capability and model recommendation.

Text Generation & Summarization
	•	Small LLM completions (e.g. quick prompts, boilerplate replies)
Use the text-generation pipeline with a tiny model like distilgpt2 or gpt2. HF’s free Inference API supports text generation out of the box  ￼, and the pipeline abstraction handles all the details  ￼.
	•	Document or snippet summarization
Offload to the summarization pipeline using facebook/bart-large-cnn for quality or t5-small to conserve credits  ￼ ￼.

Natural Language Understanding
	•	Sentiment analysis
Swap in the sentiment-analysis pipeline with distilbert-base-uncased-finetuned-sst-2-english to categorize tone or flag negativity  ￼.
	•	Named Entity Recognition (NER)
Use the ner pipeline powered by dbmdz/bert-large-cased-finetuned-conll03-english to pull out people, places, orgs, etc.  ￼.
	•	Question Answering
Delegate fact-lookup to question-answering with distilbert-base-cased-distilled-squad for fast, accurate span extraction  ￼.
	•	Zero-shot classification
For ad-hoc taxonomy or intent detection without retraining, use zero-shot-classification on facebook/bart-large-mnli  ￼.

Multilingual Capabilities
	•	Translation
Hand off to the translation pipeline. Pick the appropriate Helsinki-NLP model (e.g. Helsinki-NLP/opus-mt-en-de or …-en-fr) for high-quality, free translation  ￼ ￼.

Semantic Search & Embeddings
	•	Text embeddings
Precompute or live-generate embeddings with sentence-transformers/all-MiniLM-L6-v2 for semantic search, clustering, recommendation  ￼.

Document & Vision Processing
	•	Optical Character Recognition (OCR)
Use image-to-text with a TrOCR model like microsoft/trocr-base-handwritten for scanned docs  ￼.
	•	Image captioning
Auto-describe images via image-to-text using Salesforce/blip-image-captioning-base or nlpconnect/vit-gpt2-image-captioning  ￼.

Audio Processing
	•	Speech-to-text (ASR)
Let the API handle automatic-speech-recognition with facebook/wav2vec2-base-960h for transcripts  ￼.

Note: Text-to-speech isn’t yet broadly supported on the free Inference API—keep that in-house or explore SpeechBrain/Coqui on your own servers  ￼ ￼.

⸻

Putting It All Together

Integrate via the Hugging Face Inference API, for example in Python:

from huggingface_hub import InferenceApi

hf = InferenceApi(repo_id="facebook/bart-large-cnn", token="YOUR_TOKEN")
summary = hf(inputs="Long text to summarize...", task="summarization")

Every one of the above pipelines can be swapped in with a few lines of code, slurping off lighter workloads to HF’s free infrastructure so you only pay for the beef.